---
layout: post
title: 2012 (Part Three)
date: 2012-12-10 19:56:15.000000000 +00:00
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- My work
- Publications
tags:
- CZTS
- Delafossite
- Kesterite
- MOF
- SnS
- Some
- TCO
meta:
  _edit_last: '35096388'
  _publicize_pending: '1'
author:
  login: aronwalsh
  email: aronjwalsh@gmail.com
  display_name: Aron
  first_name: Aron
  last_name: Walsh
permalink: "/2012/12/10/2012-part-three/"
---
<p>Spring is the time for the best research ideas; summer is the time for writing up the work; autumn is the time for peer-review and winter is time to reap the rewards. The bounty of the last few months:</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/jp309154s">"Phase Stability of the Earth-Abundant Tin Sulfides SnS, SnS2, and Sn2S3"</a> L. Burton and A. Walsh, Journal of Physical Chemistry C 116, 24262 (2012).</li>
</ul>
<p>The first publication written by my first PhD student (an iconic moment). Lee has spent a year making sense of both experiment and theory of tin sulfides towards applications in solar cells. One of his early findings was that the recently reported zinc-blende phase cannot exist (based on thermodynamic, crystallographic, computational and chemical grounds).</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.4768215">“Abundance of Cu<sub>Zn</sub>+Sn<sub>Zn</sub> and 2Cu<sub>Zn</sub>+Sn<sub>Zn</sub> defect clusters in kesterite solar cells"</a> S. Chen, L. Wang, A. Walsh, X. G. Gong and S.-H. Wei, Applied Physics Letters 101, 223901 (2012).</li>
</ul>
<p>Attending the recent <a href="http://wwwen.uni.lu/research/fstc/physics_and_material_sciences_research_unit/photovoltaics_lpv/kesterite_workshop_2012">European Kesterite Workshop</a> was inspiring: many groups across the continent working towards the common goal of low cost and sustainable solar energy.  The defect chemistry of the quaternary semiconductor Cu2ZnSnS4 (CZTS) is epic; in the latest chapter we have identified a number of defect complexes that are likely to impact the performance in CZTS solar cells.</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://link.aip.org/link/doi/10.1063/1.4768726">"Electronic structure of CuCrO2 thin films grown on Al2O3(001) by oxygen plasma assisted molecular beam epitaxy"</a> D. Shin, J. S. Foord, R. G. Egdell and A. Walsh, Journal of Applied Physics 112, 113718 (2012).</li>
</ul>
<p>When my long-time collaborator Russ Egdell visited Bath for a seminar last summer, we sat down to discuss our on-going projects. One issue he had was understanding why the material CuCrO2 adopted a peculiar orientation (015) when grown on Al2O3 substrates. With the aid of  crystal structure visualisation and a few back-of-the-envelope calculations we were able to explain it in a few hours. This nice paper is the result!</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2tc00108j">“Thermodynamic and electronic properties of tunable II-VI and IV-VI semiconductor based metal-organic frameworks from computational chemistry”</a> C. H. Hendon, D. Tiana, T. P. Vaid and A. Walsh, Journal of Materials Chemistry C 1, 95 (2013).</li>
</ul>
<p>The first publication written by my second PhD student (another iconic moment). A first step towards systematically tuning the electronic properties of metal organic frameworks. From screening 24 compounds, five potential hybrid semiconductors were identified.</p>
